logicstamp-docs/mcp/TOOL_DESCRIPTION.md, before:

# LogicStamp Context - Complete Tool Description

## Overview

**LogicStamp Context** is a zero-configuration CLI tool that analyzes React/TypeScript codebases and generates machine-readable context bundles optimized for AI assistants and CI/CD pipelines. It extracts comprehensive component metadata, builds dependency graphs, and produces structured JSON documentation that captures the complete architecture of your application.

## Core Capabilities

### 1. Per-Component "Contract" Generation

For each component in your codebase, LogicStamp Context generates a detailed contract that includes:

#### Component Identity
- **Component name** - Extracted from function/class declarations and file names
- **File path** - Both relative (`entryPathRel`) and absolute (`entryPathAbs`) paths
- **Entry ID** - Normalized identifier used for dependency tracking

#### Component Type Classification
- **Kind detection** - Automatically classifies components as:
  - `react:component` - React functional or class components
  - `ts:module` - TypeScript utility modules
  - `node:cli` - CLI entry points
- **Next.js framework detection**:
  - **Page/Layout identification** - Detects files in Next.js App Router (`/app` directory)
  - **Client component** - Identifies `'use client'` directive
  - **Server component** - Identifies Server Components (in `/app` without `'use client'`)
  - **Server action** - Detects `'use server'` directive

#### Exported Props Signature
- **TypeScript type inference** - Extracts prop types from:
  - Interfaces ending with `Props` (e.g., `ButtonProps`)
  - Type aliases ending with `Props`
  - Inferred from function parameters
- **Rich type descriptors**:
  - Simple types: `string`, `number`, `boolean`
  - Literal unions: `"primary" | "secondary" | "tertiary"`
  - Function types: `(data: FormData) => Promise<void>`
  - Optional properties: Marked with `optional: true`
  - Complex types: Objects, arrays, generics

#### Internal State Analysis
- **useState extraction** - Captures all `useState` hooks with:
  - State variable names
  - Inferred types (from generics or initial values)
  - State shape documentation
- **useReducer detection** - Identifies reducer patterns and state management
- **Context usage** - Detects `useContext` hooks and identifies consumed contexts

#### Export Metadata
- **Default exports** - Identifies default-exported components
- **Named exports** - Lists all named exports from the file
- **Export patterns** - Documents export structure for proper import usage

### 2. Dependency Information

LogicStamp Context builds a comprehensive dependency graph showing how components relate to each other:

#### Internal Dependency Graph
- **Component dependencies** - Lists all React components rendered within each component
- **Dependency resolution** - Resolves relative imports and tracks component relationships
- **Used by / Uses relationships**:
  - `dependencies` - Components this component uses (outgoing edges)
  - `usedBy` - Components that use this component (incoming edges)
- **Dependency depth** - Configurable traversal depth (default: 1, supports deeper analysis)

#### External Package Imports
- **Import tracking** - Captures all import statements:
  - React ecosystem: `react`, `react-dom`, `next/router`, etc.
  - State management: `react-query`, `zustand`, `redux`, etc.
  - Design systems: `@mui/material`, `@chakra-ui/react`, etc.
  - Utility libraries: `lodash`, `date-fns`, etc.
- **External package identification** - Distinguishes between:
  - Internal components (analyzed and included)
  - External packages (documented but not analyzed)
  - Missing dependencies (tracked in `meta.missing`)

#### Dependency Graph Structure
- **Root components** - Entry points not used by other components
- **Leaf components** - Primitive components with no dependencies
- **Circular dependency detection** - Identifies and reports circular import patterns
- **Missing dependency tracking** - Documents unresolved imports with reasons

### 3. Behavioral Hints

LogicStamp Context analyzes component behavior patterns and provides semantic hints:

#### React Hooks Usage
- **State management hooks**: `useState`, `useReducer`
- **Effect hooks**: `useEffect`, `useLayoutEffect`
- **Performance hooks**: `useMemo`, `useCallback`
- **Context hooks**: `useContext`
- **Ref hooks**: `useRef`, `useImperativeHandle`
- **Custom hooks**: Any hook matching `use[A-Z]` pattern

#### Side-Effect Analysis
- **Data fetching** - Detects patterns like:
  - React Query hooks (`useQuery`, `useMutation`)
  - Fetch API usage
  - Async data loading functions
- **Navigation** - Identifies routing patterns:
  - Next.js router usage (`next/router`, `next/navigation`)
  - React Router patterns
  - Route string literals in JSX
- **Event handlers** - Extracts event handler signatures:
  - `onClick`, `onSubmit`, `onChange`, etc.
  - Function signatures for each handler
  - Event propagation patterns

#### Role Tags
Automatically infers component roles based on patterns:
- **Form** - Components with form validation, `onSubmit` handlers
- **Layout** - Components in layout directories or with layout patterns
- **List** - Components rendering arrays or collections
- **API route** - Next.js API route handlers
- **Page** - Next.js page components
- **Presentational** - Pure display components with no state/events
- **Interactive** - Components with state and event handlers
- **Utility** - Helper modules and utility functions

#### Behavioral Predictions (Optional)
When enabled with `--predict-behavior`, adds semantic predictions:
- Form validation logic detection
- Side effect management patterns
- Data fetching/mutation indicators
- Memoization usage hints
- Loading/error state handling
- Performance optimization patterns

### 4. Style Metadata Extraction

When using `stamp context style` or `stamp context --include-style`, LogicStamp Context analyzes and extracts visual and layout information:

#### Style Sources
- **Tailwind CSS** - Categorized classes (layout, spacing, colors, typography, borders, effects)
- **SCSS/CSS Modules** - Module imports, selectors, properties, SCSS features (variables, nesting, mixins)
- **Inline Styles** - Detects `style={{...}}` usage
- **styled-components/Emotion** - Styled component declarations, theme usage
- **framer-motion** - Motion components, animation variants, gesture handlers, viewport animations

#### Layout Metadata
- **Layout Type** - Identifies flex or grid layouts
- **Grid Patterns** - Column configurations (e.g., "grid-cols-2 md:grid-cols-3")
- **Hero Patterns** - Detects hero sections (large text + CTA buttons)
- **Feature Cards** - Identifies grid layouts with card-like elements
- **Responsive Breakpoints** - Lists all breakpoints used (sm, md, lg, etc.)

#### Visual Metadata
- **Color Palette** - Extracts color classes (bg-*, text-*, border-*)
- **Spacing Patterns** - Identifies padding and margin utilities used
- **Border Radius** - Detects rounded corner patterns
- **Typography** - Extracts text size and font weight classes

#### Animation Metadata
- **Animation Library** - framer-motion or CSS
- **Animation Type** - fade-in, slide, etc.
- **Trigger Type** - inView, hover, click, etc.

Style metadata appears in the `style` field of component contracts (`UIFContract`) when style information is detected. Components without style usage will not have a `style` field.

### 5. Lightweight Documentation

LogicStamp Context extracts and preserves existing documentation:

#### JSDoc and Comments
- **JSDoc blocks** - Extracts `@param`, `@returns`, `@example` tags
- **Component comments** - Preserves comments attached to components
- **Prop documentation** - Captures prop descriptions from JSDoc
- **Code headers** - Generates structured `@uif` contract headers with:
  - Component description
  - Version (composition breakdown)
  - Logic signature summary
  - Behavioral predictions
  - Semantic and file hashes

#### Natural Language Summaries
- **Auto-generated descriptions** - Infers component purpose from:
  - File name patterns (e.g., `Button.tsx` → "Interactive button component")
  - Component structure (state, events, props)
  - Framework context (Next.js, React Router)
- **Context-aware labels**:
  - "Form component with validation" for form components
  - "Modal/dialog component" for modal patterns
  - "Navigation component" for nav/menu files
  - "Utility module" for helper files
- **Custom descriptions** - Supports manual description override in contracts

### 5. Root `context_main.json` Index

The main index file provides a high-level overview of the entire codebase:

#### Index Structure
- **Project metadata**:
  - Project root path (relative and absolute)
  - Generation timestamp
  - Tool version information
- **Summary statistics**:
  - Total components analyzed
  - Total bundles generated
  - Total folders with context files
  - Total token estimate (for AI cost planning)

#### Folder Organization
- **Per-folder entries** - One entry per directory containing components:
  - `path` - Relative path from project root
  - `contextFile` - Path to folder's `context.json` file
  - `bundles` - Number of bundles in this folder
  - `components` - List of component files
  - `isRoot` - Whether this is an application entry point
  - `rootLabel` - Human-readable label (e.g., "Next.js App", "Project Root")
  - `tokenEstimate` - Estimated token count for this folder

#### High-Level Dependency Graph
- **Component relationships** - Overview of how folders relate
- **Root identification** - Marks entry point folders
- **Token budgeting** - Per-folder token estimates for selective loading

## Output Structure

### Multi-File Organization

LogicStamp Context generates a folder-organized structure that mirrors your project:

```
project-root/
├── context_main.json          # Main index with folder metadata
├── context.json               # Root folder bundles (if any)
├── src/
│   └── context.json          # Bundles from src/ folder
├── src/components/
│   └── context.json         # Bundles from src/components/
└── src/utils/
    └── context.json          # Bundles from src/utils/
```

### Bundle Format

Each `context.json` file contains an array of bundles. Each bundle represents:
- **Root component** - The entry point component
- **Dependency graph** - All components used by the root (up to configured depth)
- **Complete contracts** - Full UIFContract for each component in the bundle
- **Code snippets** - Optional source code (none/header/full modes)
- **Metadata** - Missing dependencies, generation info

### Contract Schema

Each component contract (`UIFContract`) includes:

```typescript
{
  type: 'UIFContract',
  schemaVersion: '0.3',
  kind: 'react:component' | 'ts:module' | 'node:cli',
  entryId: string,                    // Normalized component path
  entryPathAbs: string,               // Absolute file path
  entryPathRel: string,               // Relative POSIX path
  description: string,                // Natural language summary
  version: {
    variables: string[],              // Variable declarations
    hooks: string[],                  // React hooks used
    components: string[],             // Components rendered
    functions: string[],              // Function declarations
    imports: string[]                 // Import statements
  },
  logicSignature: {
    props: Record<string, PropType>,  // Props with types
    emits: Record<string, EventType>, // Event handlers
    state?: Record<string, string>    // useState shapes
  },
  exports?: ExportMetadata,           // Default/named exports
  prediction?: string[],              // Behavioral hints
  nextjs?: {                          // Next.js metadata
    directive?: 'client' | 'server',
    isInAppDir?: boolean
  },
  semanticHash: string,               // Content-based hash
  fileHash: string,                   // File-based hash
  style?: {                           // Style metadata (when includeStyle: true)
    styleSources: {
      tailwind?: {
        categories: {
          layout: string[],
          spacing: string[],
          colors: string[],
          typography: string[],
          borders: string[],
          effects: string[]
        },
        breakpoints: string[],
        classCount: number
      },
      scssModule?: string,
      scssDetails?: {
        selectors: string[],
        properties: string[],
        features: {
          variables: boolean,
          nesting: boolean
        }
      },
      motion?: {
        components: string[],
        variants: string[],
        features: {
          gestures: boolean,
          viewportAnimations: boolean
        }
      }
    },
    layout: {
      type: "flex" | "grid",
      cols?: string,
      hasHeroPattern?: boolean,
      hasFeatureCards?: boolean
    },
    visual: {
      colors: string[],
      spacing: string[],
      radius?: string,
      typography: string[]
    },
    animation?: {
      library: "framer-motion" | "css",
      type: string,
      trigger: string
    }
  }
}
```

## Key Features

### Zero Configuration
- Works out of the box on any React/TypeScript project
- No build step required - analyzes source files directly
- Automatic component detection and classification

### Token Optimization
- **Three code inclusion modes**:
  - `none` - Contracts only (smallest, ~79% savings)
  - `header` - Contracts + JSDoc headers (balanced, ~65% savings)
  - `full` - Complete source code (largest, no savings)
- **Automatic token estimates** - GPT-4o-mini and Claude token counts
- **Mode comparison** - See token costs across all modes
- **Per-folder token estimates** - Budget-aware context loading

### Deterministic Output
- **Semantic hashing** - Content-based hashes for change detection
- **File hashing** - File-based hashes for integrity checking
- **Reproducible builds** - Same input produces same output

### Framework Awareness
- **Next.js App Router** - Detects pages, layouts, client/server components
- **React patterns** - Recognizes hooks, context, refs
- **TypeScript types** - Full type inference from interfaces and types

### CI/CD Integration
- **Strict validation** - `--strict-missing` flag for dependency checking
- **Drift detection** - Compare context versions to detect changes
- **JSON stats output** - Machine-readable metrics for CI pipelines
- **Exit codes** - CI-friendly success/failure indicators

## Use Cases

### AI-Assisted Development
Share context bundles with AI assistants to get:
- Architecture suggestions based on complete dependency graph
- Refactoring recommendations understanding component relationships
- Bug fixes with full context of component behavior
- Code generation that respects existing patterns

### Documentation Generation
- **API contracts** - Automatic prop/event documentation
- **Dependency trees** - Visualize component relationships
- **Component catalog** - Searchable index of all components
- **Architecture diagrams** - Data for generating visual graphs

### Code Review
- **Impact analysis** - See what components depend on changed code
- **Circular dependency detection** - Identify problematic import patterns
- **Unused component detection** - Find components not used by others
- **Complexity metrics** - Track component dependency counts

### CI/CD Validation
- **Contract verification** - Ensure components match expected contracts
- **Dependency validation** - Catch missing or broken imports
- **Change detection** - Monitor component contract drift
- **Token budgeting** - Track context size for AI workflows

## Technical Implementation

### AST-Based Analysis
- Uses `ts-morph` for robust TypeScript AST parsing
- No pre-compilation required - works directly with source files
- Handles JSX, TypeScript, and modern React patterns

### Dependency Resolution
- Resolves relative imports (`./Component`, `../utils`)
- Tracks component usage across directories
- Handles circular dependencies gracefully
- Reports missing dependencies with reasons

### Multi-File Generation
- Generates per-folder `context.json` files
- Maintains project directory structure
- Creates `context_main.json` index for navigation
- Supports incremental updates per folder

### Performance
- Fast analysis - typically completes in seconds
- Configurable depth limits prevent excessive traversal
- Max nodes per bundle prevents oversized outputs
- Efficient hashing for change detection

## Command-Line Interface

### Primary Command
```bash
stamp context [path] [options]
```

### Key Options
- `--depth <n>` - Dependency traversal depth (default: 1)
- `--include-code <mode>` - Code inclusion: `none|header|full` (default: `header`)
- `--include-style` - Include style metadata (Tailwind, SCSS, animations, etc.) - equivalent to `stamp context style`
- `--profile <profile>` - Preset: `llm-safe|llm-chat|ci-strict`
- `--predict-behavior` - Enable behavioral predictions
- `--strict-missing` - Fail on missing dependencies (CI-friendly)
- `--compare-modes` - Show token cost comparison
- `--stats` - Output JSON stats for CI

### Additional Commands
- `stamp context style` - Generate context with style metadata (equivalent to `stamp context --include-style`)
- `stamp context compare` - Multi-file drift detection
- `stamp context validate` - Schema validation
- `stamp context clean` - Remove generated files
- `stamp init` - Project initialization

## Summary

LogicStamp Context is a comprehensive codebase analysis tool that generates AI-ready documentation by:

1. **Extracting complete component contracts** - Name, path, type, props, state, exports
2. **Building dependency graphs** - Internal components, external packages, used-by relationships
3. **Analyzing behavior patterns** - Hooks, side effects, role tags, predictions
4. **Preserving documentation** - JSDoc, comments, natural language summaries
5. **Organizing output** - Folder-based structure with main index and statistics

The tool produces structured, machine-readable context that enables AI assistants to understand your codebase architecture, component relationships, and behavioral patterns without requiring access to the full source code. This makes it ideal for AI-assisted development, automated documentation, code review, and CI/CD validation workflows.

Commit message:

Remove outdated CHANGELOG and LLM_CONTEXT documentation files; add new context documentation including hashes, schema references, and usage guides for LogicStamp Context. Enhance CLI command documentation and integrate support for various UI frameworks. Update README and integration guides for improved clarity and user experience.

logicstamp-docs/mcp/TOOL_DESCRIPTION.md, after:

# LogicStamp Context - Complete Tool Description

> **See also:** [MCP Integration Guide](mcp_integration.md) for MCP server architecture | [Commands Reference](commands.md) for CLI usage | [Quick Start](quickstart.md) for getting started

## Overview

**LogicStamp Context** is a zero-configuration CLI tool that analyzes React/TypeScript codebases and generates machine-readable context bundles optimized for AI assistants and CI/CD pipelines. It extracts comprehensive component metadata, builds dependency graphs, and produces structured JSON documentation that captures the complete architecture of your application.

> **Note:** This document describes LogicStamp Context CLI capabilities. For MCP server usage, see the [MCP Integration Guide](mcp_integration.md) and [README](../README.md).

## Core Capabilities

### 1. Per-Component "Contract" Generation

For each component in your codebase, LogicStamp Context generates a detailed contract that includes:

#### Component Identity
- **Component name** - Extracted from function/class declarations and file names
- **File path** - Both relative (`entryPathRel`) and absolute (`entryPathAbs`) paths
- **Entry ID** - Normalized identifier used for dependency tracking

#### Component Type Classification
- **Kind detection** - Automatically classifies components as:
  - `react:component` - React functional or class components
  - `ts:module` - TypeScript utility modules
  - `node:cli` - CLI entry points
- **Next.js framework detection**:
  - **Page/Layout identification** - Detects files in Next.js App Router (`/app` directory)
  - **Client component** - Identifies `'use client'` directive
  - **Server component** - Identifies Server Components (in `/app` without `'use client'`)
  - **Server action** - Detects `'use server'` directive

#### Exported Props Signature
- **TypeScript type inference** - Extracts prop types from:
  - Interfaces ending with `Props` (e.g., `ButtonProps`)
  - Type aliases ending with `Props`
  - Inferred from function parameters
- **Rich type descriptors**:
  - Simple types: `string`, `number`, `boolean`
  - Literal unions: `"primary" | "secondary" | "tertiary"`
  - Function types: `(data: FormData) => Promise<void>`
  - Optional properties: Marked with `optional: true`
  - Complex types: Objects, arrays, generics

#### Internal State Analysis
- **useState extraction** - Captures all `useState` hooks with:
  - State variable names
  - Inferred types (from generics or initial values)
  - State shape documentation
- **useReducer detection** - Identifies reducer patterns and state management
- **Context usage** - Detects `useContext` hooks and identifies consumed contexts

#### Export Metadata
- **Default exports** - Identifies default-exported components
- **Named exports** - Lists all named exports from the file
- **Export patterns** - Documents export structure for proper import usage

### 2. Dependency Information

LogicStamp Context builds a comprehensive dependency graph showing how components relate to each other:

#### Internal Dependency Graph
- **Component dependencies** - Lists all React components rendered within each component
- **Dependency resolution** - Resolves relative imports and tracks component relationships
- **Used by / Uses relationships**:
  - `dependencies` - Components this component uses (outgoing edges)
  - `usedBy` - Components that use this component (incoming edges)
- **Dependency depth** - Configurable traversal depth (default: 1, supports deeper analysis)

#### External Package Imports
- **Import tracking** - Captures all import statements:
  - React ecosystem: `react`, `react-dom`, `next/router`, etc.
  - State management: `react-query`, `zustand`, `redux`, etc.
  - Design systems: `@mui/material`, `@chakra-ui/react`, etc.
  - Utility libraries: `lodash`, `date-fns`, etc.
- **External package identification** - Distinguishes between:
  - Internal components (analyzed and included)
  - External packages (documented but not analyzed)
  - Missing dependencies (tracked in `meta.missing`)

#### Dependency Graph Structure
- **Root components** - Entry points not used by other components
- **Leaf components** - Primitive components with no dependencies
- **Circular dependency detection** - Identifies and reports circular import patterns
- **Missing dependency tracking** - Documents unresolved imports with reasons

### 3. Behavioral Hints

LogicStamp Context analyzes component behavior patterns and provides semantic hints:

#### React Hooks Usage
- **State management hooks**: `useState`, `useReducer`
- **Effect hooks**: `useEffect`, `useLayoutEffect`
- **Performance hooks**: `useMemo`, `useCallback`
- **Context hooks**: `useContext`
- **Ref hooks**: `useRef`, `useImperativeHandle`
- **Custom hooks**: Any hook matching `use[A-Z]` pattern

#### Side-Effect Analysis
- **Data fetching** - Detects patterns like:
  - React Query hooks (`useQuery`, `useMutation`)
  - Fetch API usage
  - Async data loading functions
- **Navigation** - Identifies routing patterns:
  - Next.js router usage (`next/router`, `next/navigation`)
  - React Router patterns
  - Route string literals in JSX
- **Event handlers** - Extracts event handler signatures:
  - `onClick`, `onSubmit`, `onChange`, etc.
  - Function signatures for each handler
  - Event propagation patterns

#### Role Tags
Automatically infers component roles based on patterns:
- **Form** - Components with form validation, `onSubmit` handlers
- **Layout** - Components in layout directories or with layout patterns
- **List** - Components rendering arrays or collections
- **API route** - Next.js API route handlers
- **Page** - Next.js page components
- **Presentational** - Pure display components with no state/events
- **Interactive** - Components with state and event handlers
- **Utility** - Helper modules and utility functions

#### Behavioral Predictions (Optional)
When enabled with `--predict-behavior`, adds semantic predictions:
- Form validation logic detection
- Side effect management patterns
- Data fetching/mutation indicators
- Memoization usage hints
- Loading/error state handling
- Performance optimization patterns

### 4. Style Metadata Extraction

When using `stamp context style` or `stamp context --include-style`, LogicStamp Context analyzes and extracts visual and layout information:

#### Style Sources
- **Tailwind CSS** - Categorized classes (layout, spacing, colors, typography, borders, effects)
- **SCSS/CSS Modules** - Module imports, selectors, properties, SCSS features (variables, nesting, mixins)
- **Inline Styles** - Detects `style={{...}}` usage
- **styled-components/Emotion** - Styled component declarations, theme usage
- **framer-motion** - Motion components, animation variants, gesture handlers, viewport animations

#### Layout Metadata
- **Layout Type** - Identifies flex or grid layouts
- **Grid Patterns** - Column configurations (e.g., "grid-cols-2 md:grid-cols-3")
- **Hero Patterns** - Detects hero sections (large text + CTA buttons)
- **Feature Cards** - Identifies grid layouts with card-like elements
- **Responsive Breakpoints** - Lists all breakpoints used (sm, md, lg, etc.)

#### Visual Metadata
- **Color Palette** - Extracts color classes (bg-*, text-*, border-*)
- **Spacing Patterns** - Identifies padding and margin utilities used
- **Border Radius** - Detects rounded corner patterns
- **Typography** - Extracts text size and font weight classes

#### Animation Metadata
- **Animation Library** - framer-motion or CSS
- **Animation Type** - fade-in, slide, etc.
- **Trigger Type** - inView, hover, click, etc.

Style metadata appears in the `style` field of component contracts (`UIFContract`) when style information is detected. Components without style usage will not have a `style` field.

### 5. Lightweight Documentation

LogicStamp Context extracts and preserves existing documentation:

#### JSDoc and Comments
- **JSDoc blocks** - Extracts `@param`, `@returns`, `@example` tags
- **Component comments** - Preserves comments attached to components
- **Prop documentation** - Captures prop descriptions from JSDoc
- **Code headers** - Generates structured `@uif` contract headers with:
  - Component description
  - Version (composition breakdown)
  - Logic signature summary
  - Behavioral predictions
  - Semantic and file hashes

#### Natural Language Summaries
- **Auto-generated descriptions** - Infers component purpose from:
  - File name patterns (e.g., `Button.tsx` → "Interactive button component")
  - Component structure (state, events, props)
  - Framework context (Next.js, React Router)
- **Context-aware labels**:
  - "Form component with validation" for form components
  - "Modal/dialog component" for modal patterns
  - "Navigation component" for nav/menu files
  - "Utility module" for helper files
- **Custom descriptions** - Supports manual description override in contracts

### 5. Root `context_main.json` Index

The main index file provides a high-level overview of the entire codebase:

#### Index Structure
- **Project metadata**:
  - Project root path (relative and absolute)
  - Generation timestamp
  - Tool version information
- **Summary statistics**:
  - Total components analyzed
  - Total bundles generated
  - Total folders with context files
  - Total token estimate (for AI cost planning)

#### Folder Organization
- **Per-folder entries** - One entry per directory containing components:
  - `path` - Relative path from project root
  - `contextFile` - Path to folder's `context.json` file
  - `bundles` - Number of bundles in this folder
  - `components` - List of component files
  - `isRoot` - Whether this is an application entry point
  - `rootLabel` - Human-readable label (e.g., "Next.js App", "Project Root")
  - `tokenEstimate` - Estimated token count for this folder

#### High-Level Dependency Graph
- **Component relationships** - Overview of how folders relate
- **Root identification** - Marks entry point folders
- **Token budgeting** - Per-folder token estimates for selective loading

## Output Structure

### Multi-File Organization

LogicStamp Context generates a folder-organized structure that mirrors your project:

```
project-root/
├── context_main.json          # Main index with folder metadata
├── context.json               # Root folder bundles (if any)
├── src/
│   └── context.json          # Bundles from src/ folder
├── src/components/
│   └── context.json         # Bundles from src/components/
└── src/utils/
    └── context.json          # Bundles from src/utils/
```

### Bundle Format

Each `context.json` file contains an array of bundles. Each bundle represents:
- **Root component** - The entry point component
- **Dependency graph** - All components used by the root (up to configured depth)
- **Complete contracts** - Full UIFContract for each component in the bundle
- **Code snippets** - Optional source code (none/header/full modes)
- **Metadata** - Missing dependencies, generation info

### Contract Schema

Each component contract (`UIFContract`) includes:

```typescript
{
  type: 'UIFContract',
  schemaVersion: '0.3',
  kind: 'react:component' | 'ts:module' | 'node:cli',
  entryId: string,                    // Normalized component path
  entryPathAbs: string,               // Absolute file path
  entryPathRel: string,               // Relative POSIX path
  description: string,                // Natural language summary
  version: {
    variables: string[],              // Variable declarations
    hooks: string[],                  // React hooks used
    components: string[],             // Components rendered
    functions: string[],              // Function declarations
    imports: string[]                 // Import statements
  },
  logicSignature: {
    props: Record<string, PropType>,  // Props with types
    emits: Record<string, EventType>, // Event handlers
    state?: Record<string, string>    // useState shapes
  },
  exports?: ExportMetadata,           // Default/named exports
  prediction?: string[],              // Behavioral hints
  nextjs?: {                          // Next.js metadata
    directive?: 'client' | 'server',
    isInAppDir?: boolean
  },
  semanticHash: string,               // Content-based hash
  fileHash: string,                   // File-based hash
  style?: {                           // Style metadata (when includeStyle: true)
    styleSources: {
      tailwind?: {
        categories: {
          layout: string[],
          spacing: string[],
          colors: string[],
          typography: string[],
          borders: string[],
          effects: string[]
        },
        breakpoints: string[],
        classCount: number
      },
      scssModule?: string,
      scssDetails?: {
        selectors: string[],
        properties: string[],
        features: {
          variables: boolean,
          nesting: boolean
        }
      },
      motion?: {
        components: string[],
        variants: string[],
        features: {
          gestures: boolean,
          viewportAnimations: boolean
        }
      }
    },
    layout: {
      type: "flex" | "grid",
      cols?: string,
      hasHeroPattern?: boolean,
      hasFeatureCards?: boolean
    },
    visual: {
      colors: string[],
      spacing: string[],
      radius?: string,
      typography: string[]
    },
    animation?: {
      library: "framer-motion" | "css",
      type: string,
      trigger: string
    }
  }
}
```

## Key Features

### Zero Configuration
- Works out of the box on any React/TypeScript project
- No build step required - analyzes source files directly
- Automatic component detection and classification

### Token Optimization
- **Three code inclusion modes**:
  - `none` - Contracts only (smallest, ~79% savings)
  - `header` - Contracts + JSDoc headers (balanced, ~65% savings)
  - `full` - Complete source code (largest, no savings)
- **Automatic token estimates** - GPT-4o-mini and Claude token counts
- **Mode comparison** - See token costs across all modes
- **Per-folder token estimates** - Budget-aware context loading

### Deterministic Output
- **Semantic hashing** - Content-based hashes for change detection
- **File hashing** - File-based hashes for integrity checking
- **Reproducible builds** - Same input produces same output

### Framework Awareness
- **Next.js App Router** - Detects pages, layouts, client/server components
- **React patterns** - Recognizes hooks, context, refs
- **TypeScript types** - Full type inference from interfaces and types

### CI/CD Integration
- **Strict validation** - `--strict-missing` flag for dependency checking
- **Drift detection** - Compare context versions to detect changes
- **JSON stats output** - Machine-readable metrics for CI pipelines
- **Exit codes** - CI-friendly success/failure indicators

## Use Cases

### AI-Assisted Development
Share context bundles with AI assistants to get:
- Architecture suggestions based on complete dependency graph
- Refactoring recommendations understanding component relationships
- Bug fixes with full context of component behavior
- Code generation that respects existing patterns

### Documentation Generation
- **API contracts** - Automatic prop/event documentation
- **Dependency trees** - Visualize component relationships
- **Component catalog** - Searchable index of all components
- **Architecture diagrams** - Data for generating visual graphs

### Code Review
- **Impact analysis** - See what components depend on changed code
- **Circular dependency detection** - Identify problematic import patterns
- **Unused component detection** - Find components not used by others
- **Complexity metrics** - Track component dependency counts

### CI/CD Validation
- **Contract verification** - Ensure components match expected contracts
- **Dependency validation** - Catch missing or broken imports
- **Change detection** - Monitor component contract drift
- **Token budgeting** - Track context size for AI workflows

## Technical Implementation

### AST-Based Analysis
- Uses `ts-morph` for robust TypeScript AST parsing
- No pre-compilation required - works directly with source files
- Handles JSX, TypeScript, and modern React patterns

### Dependency Resolution
- Resolves relative imports (`./Component`, `../utils`)
- Tracks component usage across directories
- Handles circular dependencies gracefully
- Reports missing dependencies with reasons

### Multi-File Generation
- Generates per-folder `context.json` files
- Maintains project directory structure
- Creates `context_main.json` index for navigation
- Supports incremental updates per folder

### Performance
- Fast analysis - typically completes in seconds
- Configurable depth limits prevent excessive traversal
- Max nodes per bundle prevents oversized outputs
- Efficient hashing for change detection

## Command-Line Interface

### Primary Command
```bash
stamp context [path] [options]
```

### Key Options
- `--depth <n>` - Dependency traversal depth (default: 1)
- `--include-code <mode>` - Code inclusion: `none|header|full` (default: `header`)
- `--include-style` - Include style metadata (Tailwind, SCSS, animations, etc.) - equivalent to `stamp context style`
- `--profile <profile>` - Preset: `llm-safe|llm-chat|ci-strict`
- `--predict-behavior` - Enable behavioral predictions
- `--strict-missing` - Fail on missing dependencies (CI-friendly)
- `--compare-modes` - Show token cost comparison
- `--stats` - Output JSON stats for CI

### Additional Commands
- `stamp context style` - Generate context with style metadata (equivalent to `stamp context --include-style`)
- `stamp context compare` - Multi-file drift detection
- `stamp context validate` - Schema validation
- `stamp context clean` - Remove generated files
- `stamp init` - Project initialization

## Summary

LogicStamp Context is a comprehensive codebase analysis tool that generates AI-ready documentation by:

1. **Extracting complete component contracts** - Name, path, type, props, state, exports
2. **Building dependency graphs** - Internal components, external packages, used-by relationships
3. **Analyzing behavior patterns** - Hooks, side effects, role tags, predictions
4. **Preserving documentation** - JSDoc, comments, natural language summaries
5. **Organizing output** - Folder-based structure with main index and statistics

The tool produces structured, machine-readable context that enables AI assistants to understand your codebase architecture, component relationships, and behavioral patterns without requiring access to the full source code. This makes it ideal for AI-assisted development, automated documentation, code review, and CI/CD validation workflows.
