logicstamp-docs/docs/LLM_CONTEXT.md, before:

# LogicStamp Context – LLM Guide

## Overview
- Generates AI-friendly context bundles from React/TypeScript projects without build steps.
- Ships as a global CLI (`logicstamp-context`) that scans `.ts`/`.tsx`, extracts component contracts, and emits structured JSON.
- Optimizes output for consumption by assistants such as Claude or ChatGPT to improve code understanding and guidance.
- Works on Node.js ≥ 18 and requires access to the project's source tree.

## Core Workflow
- `src/cli/index.ts` orchestrates CLI execution: reads CLI flags, calls the analyzer pipeline, writes bundles to disk.
- `src/core/astParser.ts` uses `ts-morph` to parse source files, derive component metadata, and normalize type information.
- `src/core/contractBuilder.ts` converts raw AST findings into UIF contracts and merges incremental updates.
- `src/core/manifest.ts` and `src/core/pack.ts` assemble dependency graphs, compute bundle hashes, and format final output entries.
- `src/types/UIFContract.ts` defines the UIF contract schema; `src/utils/fsx.ts` and `src/utils/hash.ts` provide file and hashing utilities.

## CLI Usage Cheatsheet
- Install globally: `npm install -g logicstamp-context`.
- Default command `logicstamp-context [target]` scans the current directory (or supplied path) and emits `context.json`.
- Key flags: `--depth` (dependency traversal), `--include-code none|header|full`, `--profile llm-chat|llm-safe|ci-strict`, `--out <file>`, `--max-nodes <n>`.
- Profiles tune defaults: `llm-chat` (balanced), `llm-safe` (token-conservative), `ci-strict` (validation-first).
- Supports pretty and NDJSON formats via `--format`.

## What `context.json` Contains
- Output is an array of LogicStamp bundles. Each bundle represents one entry point (component/module) plus its immediate dependency graph.
- Top-level fields: `position`, `type`, `schemaVersion`, `entryId`, `depth`, `createdAt`, `bundleHash`, `graph`, `meta`.
- `graph.nodes` holds UIF contracts describing functions, props, events, imports, and semantic/file hashes. Optional `codeHeader` stores contract headers or code snippets when requested.
- `graph.edges` lists dependency relationships between nodes (empty when analysis depth is 1).
- `meta` section contains two critical fields:
  - `missing`: Array of unresolved dependencies. Each entry includes `name` (import path), `reason` (why it failed), and `referencedBy` (source component). Empty array indicates complete dependency resolution.
  - `source`: Generator version string (e.g., `"logicstamp-context@0.1.0"`) for compatibility tracking.
- Example bundle skeleton:

```
```1:58:context.json
[
  {
    "position": "1/9",
    "type": "LogicStampBundle",
    "schemaVersion": "0.1",
    "entryId": ".../src/cli/index.ts",
    "graph": {
      "nodes": [
        {
          "contract": {
            "kind": "node:cli",
            "version": {
              "functions": ["generateContext", "main", "printHelp"],
              "imports": ["../core/astParser.js", "..."]
            }
```

- Bundles may include behavioral `prediction` hints when heuristics detect notable logic (e.g., form handling, data access).

## Interpreting Missing Dependencies
When `meta.missing` is non-empty, it signals incomplete dependency resolution:

**Common scenarios:**
1. **External packages** (`reason: "external package"`) - Expected. LogicStamp only analyzes project source, not node_modules.
2. **File not found** (`reason: "file not found"`) - Component references a deleted/moved file. May indicate refactoring in progress or broken imports.
3. **Outside scan path** (`reason: "outside scan path"`) - Dependency exists but wasn't included in the scan directory. Consider widening scan scope.
4. **Max depth exceeded** (`reason: "max depth exceeded"`) - Dependency chain deeper than `--depth` setting. Increase depth for fuller analysis.
5. **Circular dependency** (`reason: "circular dependency"`) - Import cycle detected. LogicStamp breaks the cycle to prevent infinite loops.

**Best practices for LLMs:**
- Check `meta.missing` before making assumptions about complete component coverage
- When missing deps exist, inform the user that analysis may be partial
- Suggest running with `--depth 2` or higher if many "max depth exceeded" entries appear
- Flag "file not found" entries as potential bugs in the codebase

## Suggestions for LLM Consumers
- Load `context.json` and filter by `entryId` to focus on relevant modules.
- Use `version.functions` and `logicSignature` to reason about available APIs without scanning full source.
- Combine multiple bundles when a task spans related modules; respect `max-nodes` constraints to stay within token budgets.
- For deeper understanding, rerun the CLI with `--include-code full` or higher `--depth` before querying the assistant.
- **Always inspect `meta.missing`** to understand analysis completeness before providing architectural guidance.

Commit message:

Update documentation and enhance UI elements. Revise LLM_CONTEXT.md, README.md, and USAGE.md to clarify CLI usage and output structure. Introduce new mascot SVG and PNG files, replacing the previous icon. Update layout.tsx and favicon route to reflect the new mascot. Improve FAQ component with a new entry explaining the per-root bundle design. Enhance Footer component with responsive mascot display. Overall, these changes aim to improve user experience and documentation clarity.

logicstamp-docs/docs/LLM_CONTEXT.md, after:

# LogicStamp Context – LLM Guide

## Overview
- Generates AI-friendly context bundles from React/TypeScript projects without build steps.
- Ships as a global CLI (install with `npm install -g logicstamp-context`, then use `stamp context` command) that scans `.ts`/`.tsx`, extracts component contracts, and emits structured JSON.
- Optimizes output for consumption by assistants such as Claude or ChatGPT to improve code understanding and guidance.
- Works on Node.js ≥ 18 and requires access to the project's source tree.

**Note**: "Global CLI" means the tool is installed globally on your system (via `npm install -g`), making the `stamp` command available from any directory in your terminal, not just within a specific project folder.

## Core Workflow
- `src/cli/index.ts` orchestrates CLI execution: reads CLI flags, calls the analyzer pipeline, writes bundles to disk.
- `src/core/astParser.ts` uses `ts-morph` to parse source files, derive component metadata, and normalize type information.
- `src/core/contractBuilder.ts` converts raw AST findings into UIF contracts and merges incremental updates.
- `src/core/manifest.ts` and `src/core/pack.ts` assemble dependency graphs, compute bundle hashes, and format final output entries.
- `src/types/UIFContract.ts` defines the UIF contract schema; `src/utils/fsx.ts` and `src/utils/hash.ts` provide file and hashing utilities.

## CLI Usage Cheatsheet
- Install globally: `npm install -g logicstamp-context`.
- Default command `stamp context [target]` scans the current directory (or supplied path) and emits `context.json`.
- Key flags: `--depth` (dependency traversal), `--include-code none|header|full`, `--profile llm-chat|llm-safe|ci-strict`, `--out <file>`, `--max-nodes <n>`.
- Profiles tune defaults: `llm-chat` (balanced), `llm-safe` (token-conservative), `ci-strict` (validation-first).
- Supports pretty and NDJSON formats via `--format`.

## What `context.json` Contains
- Output is an array of LogicStamp bundles. Each bundle represents one entry point (component/module) plus its immediate dependency graph.
- **Design note**: LogicStamp Context uses per-root bundles (one bundle per entry point) rather than per-component files. This means each bundle contains the root component plus its complete dependency graph—all related components and their relationships in one self-contained unit. This design is optimized for AI consumption: when you need help with a specific page or feature, share that root bundle and the AI has complete context.
- Top-level fields: `position`, `type`, `schemaVersion`, `entryId`, `depth`, `createdAt`, `bundleHash`, `graph`, `meta`.
- `graph.nodes` holds UIF contracts describing functions, props, events, imports, and semantic/file hashes. Optional `codeHeader` stores contract headers or code snippets when requested.
- `graph.edges` lists dependency relationships between nodes (empty when analysis depth is 1).
- `meta` section contains two critical fields:
  - `missing`: Array of unresolved dependencies. Each entry includes `name` (import path), `reason` (why it failed), and `referencedBy` (source component). Empty array indicates complete dependency resolution.
  - `source`: Generator version string (e.g., `"logicstamp-context@0.1.0"`) for compatibility tracking.
- Example bundle skeleton:

```
```1:58:context.json
[
  {
    "position": "1/9",
    "type": "LogicStampBundle",
    "schemaVersion": "0.1",
    "entryId": ".../src/cli/index.ts",
    "graph": {
      "nodes": [
        {
          "contract": {
            "kind": "node:cli",
            "version": {
              "functions": ["generateContext", "main", "printHelp"],
              "imports": ["../core/astParser.js", "..."]
            }
```

- Bundles may include behavioral `prediction` hints when heuristics detect notable logic (e.g., form handling, data access).

## Interpreting Missing Dependencies
When `meta.missing` is non-empty, it signals incomplete dependency resolution:

**Common scenarios:**
1. **External packages** (`reason: "external package"`) - Expected. LogicStamp only analyzes project source, not node_modules.
2. **File not found** (`reason: "file not found"`) - Component references a deleted/moved file. May indicate refactoring in progress or broken imports.
3. **Outside scan path** (`reason: "outside scan path"`) - Dependency exists but wasn't included in the scan directory. Consider widening scan scope.
4. **Max depth exceeded** (`reason: "max depth exceeded"`) - Dependency chain deeper than `--depth` setting. Increase depth for fuller analysis.
5. **Circular dependency** (`reason: "circular dependency"`) - Import cycle detected. LogicStamp breaks the cycle to prevent infinite loops.

**Best practices for LLMs:**
- Check `meta.missing` before making assumptions about complete component coverage
- When missing deps exist, inform the user that analysis may be partial
- Suggest running with `--depth 2` or higher if many "max depth exceeded" entries appear
- Flag "file not found" entries as potential bugs in the codebase

## Suggestions for LLM Consumers
- Load `context.json` and filter by `entryId` to focus on relevant modules.
- Use `version.functions` and `logicSignature` to reason about available APIs without scanning full source.
- Combine multiple bundles when a task spans related modules; respect `max-nodes` constraints to stay within token budgets.
- For deeper understanding, rerun the CLI with `--include-code full` or higher `--depth` before querying the assistant.
- **Always inspect `meta.missing`** to understand analysis completeness before providing architectural guidance.
