docs/context/cli/init.md, before:

# Stamp Init Command

Initialize LogicStamp in your project by setting up `.gitignore` patterns and other project configuration.

## Usage

```bash
stamp init [path] [options]
```

## Arguments

- `[path]` - Target directory to initialize (default: current directory)

## Options

- `--skip-gitignore` - Skip `.gitignore` setup
- `--yes, -y` - Skip all prompts (non-interactive mode)
- `--no-secure` - Skip security scan (security scan runs by default in v0.3.0+)
- `-h, --help` - Show help

## What It Does

`stamp init` sets up LogicStamp in your project by:

1. **Creating or updating `.gitignore`** with LogicStamp-specific patterns:

   The following patterns are added to prevent generated files and sensitive reports from being committed:

   - **`context.json`** - Per-folder context bundles generated by `stamp context`. These are large JSON files containing component contracts and dependency graphs. They're regenerated on each run and don't need to be versioned.

   - **`context_*.json`** - Main index file (`context_main.json`) and other context variants. The main index provides a directory overview of all context files. Like `context.json`, these are regenerated and can be large.

   - **`context.toon`** and **`context_*.toon`** - TOON format context bundles generated when using `--format toon`. These are alternative output format files (similar to JSON but in TOON format) that are regenerated on each run and don't need to be versioned.

   - **`*.uif.json`** - UIF (User Interface Format) contract files. These are generated contract sidecars that may be created by other LogicStamp tools. They're build artifacts and don't need to be committed.

   - **`logicstamp.manifest.json`** - Dependency manifest files that track project dependencies. These are generated metadata files that can be regenerated.

   - **`.logicstamp/`** - Configuration directory containing user preferences (`config.json`) and potentially cache files. This directory stores local settings and shouldn't be committed.

   - **`stamp_security_report.json`** - 🔒 **SECURITY CRITICAL**: Security scan report file generated by `stamp security scan`. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file locations, line numbers, code snippets) and should **never be committed** to prevent exposing security findings. **Important**: Even if you don't run `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` automatically ensures this file is in `.gitignore` to protect sensitive findings.

   **Why these patterns?** LogicStamp generates files that are:
   - Large (context bundles can be hundreds of KB)
   - Regenerable (can be recreated from source code)
   - Potentially sensitive (security reports contain secret locations)
   - User-specific (configuration preferences vary by developer)

   These files are meant for local use and sharing with AI assistants, not for version control.

   **🔒 Security Note**: The `stamp_security_report.json` pattern is **critical for security**. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file paths, line numbers, code snippets). Even if you don't run `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` automatically ensures this file is in `.gitignore` to protect sensitive findings. **Never commit security reports to version control.**

2. **Generating `LLM_context.md`** in the project root (if it doesn't already exist) - A guide that helps AI assistants understand your project structure and how to work with LogicStamp context files

3. **Creating `.logicstamp/config.json`** to save your preferences so `stamp context` won't prompt again

## Examples

### Basic initialization

```bash
stamp init
```

Initializes LogicStamp in the current directory. Creates or updates `.gitignore` with the necessary patterns and runs a security scan by default. **This is non-interactive by default** - all operations are performed automatically without prompts.

### Initialize a specific directory

```bash
stamp init ./my-project
```

Initializes LogicStamp in the specified directory.

### Skip .gitignore setup

```bash
stamp init --skip-gitignore
```

Initializes LogicStamp but skips modifying `.gitignore`. Useful if you want to manage `.gitignore` manually.

### Non-interactive mode

```bash
stamp init --yes
```

Initializes LogicStamp without any prompts. All operations are performed automatically. **Note:** This is redundant since `stamp init` is already non-interactive by default (security scan runs automatically). The `--yes` flag is provided for explicit clarity in CI/CD pipelines.

### Skip security scan (enables interactive mode)

```bash
stamp init --no-secure
```

Initializes LogicStamp without running the security scan. This will:

1. Set up `.gitignore` patterns (with interactive prompts if in TTY)
2. Generate `LLM_context.md` (with interactive prompts if in TTY)

**Note**: By default, `stamp init` runs a security scan automatically, which makes it non-interactive. Use `--no-secure` to skip the security scan and enable interactive prompts (when running in a TTY environment).

## Behavior

### When .gitignore doesn't exist

Creates a new `.gitignore` file with LogicStamp patterns:

```
✅ Created .gitignore with LogicStamp patterns

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

### When .gitignore exists but doesn't have LogicStamp patterns

Adds LogicStamp patterns to the existing `.gitignore`:

```
✅ Added LogicStamp patterns to existing .gitignore

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

### When .gitignore already has LogicStamp patterns

No changes are made:

```
ℹ️  .gitignore already contains LogicStamp patterns

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

### LLM_context.md Generation

`stamp init` also generates `LLM_context.md` in your project root:

```
✅ Created LLM_context.md
```

**If `LLM_context.md` already exists:**
```
ℹ️  LLM_context.md already exists
```

This file provides guidance for AI assistants on how to understand and work with your LogicStamp context files. It's automatically generated from the package template and includes information about:
- Project structure and context file organization
- How to load and use context files
- Understanding bundle structure and metadata
- Interpreting missing dependencies

## Interactive Prompts

**By default, `stamp init` is non-interactive** because the security scan runs automatically. However, if you use `--no-secure`, `stamp init` will prompt you interactively (in TTY mode) for both `.gitignore` and `LLM_context.md` setup:

### .gitignore Setup Prompt

When `.gitignore` doesn't already have LogicStamp patterns, you'll see:

```
💡 LogicStamp generates large context files that are usually not committed.

   The following patterns will be added to .gitignore:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
   - .logicstamp/

Add recommended patterns to .gitignore? [Y/n]
```

**If you choose "Y" (or just press Enter):**
- Patterns are added to `.gitignore`
- Preference saved as `"added"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will automatically maintain patterns in future runs

**If you choose "n":**
- `.gitignore` is not modified
- Preference saved as `"skipped"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will never touch `.gitignore`
- **⚠️ Security Warning**: If you skip this, you must manually ensure `stamp_security_report.json` is in `.gitignore` before running `stamp security scan`, or the security report will be automatically added by the scan command itself.

### LLM_context.md Generation Prompt

When `LLM_context.md` doesn't exist, you'll see:

```
💡 LogicStamp can generate LLM_context.md to help AI assistants understand your project structure.

Generate LLM_context.md in project root? [Y/n]
```

**If you choose "Y" (or just press Enter):**
- `LLM_context.md` is created in the project root
- Preference saved as `"added"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will automatically maintain the file in future runs

**If you choose "n":**
- `LLM_context.md` is not created
- Preference saved as `"skipped"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will never create this file

### Default Behavior (Non-Interactive)

By default, `stamp init` is non-interactive because the security scan runs automatically:
- No prompts are shown
- All operations are performed automatically
- Preferences are saved to config

**To enable interactive mode:** Use `--no-secure` to skip the security scan, which will enable interactive prompts (when running in a TTY environment).

### Behavior in `stamp context`

The `stamp context` command **never prompts**—it respects the preferences you set via `stamp init`:

- **If config has `"added"` preference**: Automatically performs the operation
- **If config has `"skipped"` preference**: Skips the operation
- **If no config exists**: Defaults to skipping (safe, CI-friendly behavior)

You can override per-run with the `--skip-gitignore` flag:

```bash
stamp context --skip-gitignore  # Never touch .gitignore this run
```

## Safety

`stamp init` is:

- **Idempotent** - Safe to run multiple times without duplicating patterns
- **Non-destructive** - Preserves existing `.gitignore` content
- **Safe by default** - Only adds patterns, never removes anything

## Security Considerations

🔒 **Important Security Notes:**

1. **Security Report Protection**: The `stamp_security_report.json` pattern is **critical for security**. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file paths, line numbers, code snippets). Even if you skip `.gitignore` setup during `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` will automatically add this pattern when it runs. **Never commit security reports to version control.**

2. **If You Skip `.gitignore` Setup**: If you choose to skip adding patterns to `.gitignore`:
   - You must manually ensure `stamp_security_report.json` is in `.gitignore` before running `stamp security scan`
   - Or rely on `stamp security scan` to automatically add it (which it will do)
   - Other patterns (context.json, etc.) are optional but recommended to avoid committing large generated files

3. **Automatic Protection**: `stamp security scan` **always** ensures the security report file is in `.gitignore`, regardless of your `stamp init` preferences. This cannot be disabled because security reports must never be committed.

## When to Use

### Use `stamp init` when:

- Setting up LogicStamp in a new project
- You want explicit control over initialization
- You want to set up `.gitignore` before generating context files

### You don't need `stamp init` if:

- Your `.gitignore` already has the necessary patterns
- You prefer to manually manage `.gitignore` and `LLM_context.md`
- You're running `stamp context` in CI (it defaults to skipping both operations)

## Related Commands

- [`stamp context`](context.md) - Generate context files (includes smart detection)
- [`stamp context validate`](validate.md) - Validate generated context files
- [`stamp context compare`](compare.md) - Detect drift in context files
- [`stamp security scan`](security-scan.md) - Scan for secrets and generate security report

Commit message:

docs: add Code of Conduct and update related documentation for v0.3.7 (#70)
* docs: add Code of Conduct and update related documentation for v0.3.7

- Introduced a new Code of Conduct document to establish community guidelines and expectations for participation.
- Updated the CONTRIBUTING.md and README.md files to reference the new Code of Conduct.
- Enhanced documentation to reflect the latest version (v0.3.7) and improvements in emit detection accuracy.
- Revised various sections to improve clarity and consistency across the documentation.

* docs: update Code of Conduct references and content

docs/context/cli/init.md, after:

# Stamp Init Command

Initialize LogicStamp in your project by setting up `.gitignore` patterns and other project configuration.

## Usage

```bash
stamp init [path] [options]
```

## Arguments

- `[path]` - Target directory to initialize (default: current directory)

## Options

- `--skip-gitignore` - Skip `.gitignore` setup
- `--yes, -y` - Skip all prompts (non-interactive mode)
- `--no-secure` - Skip security scan (security scan runs by default in v0.3.0+)
- `-h, --help` - Show help

## What It Does

`stamp init` sets up LogicStamp in your project by:

1. **Creating or updating `.gitignore`** with LogicStamp-specific patterns:

   The following patterns are added to prevent generated files and sensitive reports from being committed:

   - **`context.json`** - Per-folder context bundles generated by `stamp context`. These are large JSON files containing component contracts and dependency graphs. They're regenerated on each run and don't need to be versioned.

   - **`context_*.json`** - Main index file (`context_main.json`) and other context variants. The main index provides a directory overview of all context files. Like `context.json`, these are regenerated and can be large.

   - **`context.toon`** and **`context_*.toon`** - TOON format context bundles generated when using `--format toon`. These are alternative output format files (similar to JSON but in TOON format) that are regenerated on each run and don't need to be versioned.

   - **`*.uif.json`** - UIF (User Interface Format) contract files. These are generated contract sidecars that may be created by other LogicStamp tools. They're build artifacts and don't need to be committed.

   - **`logicstamp.manifest.json`** - Dependency manifest files that track project dependencies. These are generated metadata files that can be regenerated.

   - **`.logicstamp/`** - Configuration directory containing user preferences (`config.json`) and potentially cache files. This directory stores local settings and shouldn't be committed.

   - **`stamp_security_report.json`** - 🔒 **SECURITY CRITICAL**: Security scan report file generated by `stamp security scan`. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file locations, line numbers, code snippets) and should **never be committed** to prevent exposing security findings. **Important**: Even if you don't run `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` automatically ensures this file is in `.gitignore` to protect sensitive findings.

   **Why these patterns?** LogicStamp generates files that are:
   - Large (context bundles can be hundreds of KB)
   - Regenerable (can be recreated from source code)
   - Potentially sensitive (security reports contain secret locations)
   - User-specific (configuration preferences vary by developer)

   These files are meant for local use and sharing with AI assistants, not for version control.

   **🔒 Security Note**: The `stamp_security_report.json` pattern is **critical for security**. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file paths, line numbers, code snippets). Even if you don't run `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` automatically ensures this file is in `.gitignore` to protect sensitive findings. **Never commit security reports to version control.**

2. **Generating `LLM_context.md`** in the project root (if it doesn't already exist) - A guide that helps AI assistants understand your project structure and how to work with LogicStamp context files

3. **Creating `.logicstamp/config.json`** to save your preferences so `stamp context` won't prompt again

## Examples

### Basic initialization

```bash
stamp init
```

Initializes LogicStamp in the current directory. Creates or updates `.gitignore` with the necessary patterns and runs a security scan by default. **This is non-interactive by default** - informational messages are shown, but no prompts appear and all operations are performed automatically.

### Initialize a specific directory

```bash
stamp init ./my-project
```

Initializes LogicStamp in the specified directory.

### Skip .gitignore setup

```bash
stamp init --skip-gitignore
```

Initializes LogicStamp but skips modifying `.gitignore`. Useful if you want to manage `.gitignore` manually.

### Non-interactive mode

```bash
stamp init --yes
```

Initializes LogicStamp without any prompts. All operations are performed automatically. **Note:** This is redundant since `stamp init` is already non-interactive by default (security scan runs automatically). The `--yes` flag is provided for explicit clarity in CI/CD pipelines.

### Skip security scan (enables interactive mode)

```bash
stamp init --no-secure
```

Initializes LogicStamp without running the security scan. This will:

1. Set up `.gitignore` patterns (with interactive prompts if in TTY)
2. Generate `LLM_context.md` (with interactive prompts if in TTY)

**Note**: By default, `stamp init` runs a security scan automatically, which makes it non-interactive. Use `--no-secure` to skip the security scan and enable interactive prompts (when running in a TTY environment).

## Behavior

### When .gitignore doesn't exist

Creates a new `.gitignore` file with LogicStamp patterns:

```
✅ Created .gitignore with LogicStamp patterns

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

### When .gitignore exists but doesn't have LogicStamp patterns

Adds LogicStamp patterns to the existing `.gitignore`:

```
✅ Added LogicStamp patterns to existing .gitignore

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

### When .gitignore already has LogicStamp patterns

If all patterns are present, no changes are made:

```
ℹ️  .gitignore already contains all LogicStamp patterns

   The following patterns were added/verified:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
```

If some patterns exist but others are missing (idempotent patch mode), only missing patterns are added:

```
✅ Updated existing LogicStamp section in .gitignore
```

### LLM_context.md Generation

`stamp init` also generates `LLM_context.md` in your project root:

```
✅ Created LLM_context.md
```

**If `LLM_context.md` already exists:**
```
ℹ️  LLM_context.md already exists
```

This file provides guidance for AI assistants on how to understand and work with your LogicStamp context files. It's automatically generated from the package template and includes information about:
- Project structure and context file organization
- How to load and use context files
- Understanding bundle structure and metadata
- Interpreting missing dependencies

## Interactive Prompts

**By default, `stamp init` is non-interactive** because the security scan runs automatically. However, if you use `--no-secure`, `stamp init` will prompt you interactively (in TTY mode) for both `.gitignore` and `LLM_context.md` setup:

### .gitignore Setup Prompt

When `.gitignore` doesn't already have LogicStamp patterns, you'll see:

```
💡 LogicStamp generates large context files that are usually not committed.

   The following patterns will be added to .gitignore:
   - context.json
   - context_*.json
   - context.toon
   - context_*.toon
   - *.uif.json
   - logicstamp.manifest.json
   - .logicstamp/

Add recommended patterns to .gitignore? [Y/n]
```

**If you choose "Y" (or just press Enter):**
- Patterns are added to `.gitignore`
- Preference saved as `"added"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will automatically maintain patterns in future runs

**If you choose "n":**
- `.gitignore` is not modified
- Preference saved as `"skipped"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will never touch `.gitignore`
- **⚠️ Security Warning**: If you skip this, you must manually ensure `stamp_security_report.json` is in `.gitignore` before running `stamp security scan`, or the security report will be automatically added by the scan command itself.

### LLM_context.md Generation Prompt

When `LLM_context.md` doesn't exist, you'll see:

```
💡 LogicStamp can generate LLM_context.md to help AI assistants understand your project structure.

Generate LLM_context.md in project root? [Y/n]
```

**If you choose "Y" (or just press Enter):**
- `LLM_context.md` is created in the project root
- Preference saved as `"added"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will automatically maintain the file in future runs

**If you choose "n":**
- `LLM_context.md` is not created
- Preference saved as `"skipped"` in `.logicstamp/config.json`
- `stamp context` will never create this file

### Default Behavior (Non-Interactive)

By default, `stamp init` is non-interactive because the security scan runs automatically:
- Informational messages are shown (e.g., "The following patterns will be added to .gitignore:")
- **No prompts are shown** - operations proceed automatically
- All operations are performed automatically without user input
- Preferences are saved to config

**To enable interactive mode:** Use `--no-secure` to skip the security scan, which will enable interactive prompts (when running in a TTY environment). In interactive mode, you'll see the same informational messages plus prompts asking for confirmation.

### Behavior in `stamp context`

The `stamp context` command **never prompts**—it respects the preferences you set via `stamp init`:

- **If config has `"added"` preference**: Automatically performs the operation
- **If config has `"skipped"` preference**: Skips the operation
- **If no config exists**: Defaults to skipping (safe, CI-friendly behavior)

You can override per-run with the `--skip-gitignore` flag:

```bash
stamp context --skip-gitignore  # Never touch .gitignore this run
```

## Safety

`stamp init` is:

- **Idempotent** - Safe to run multiple times without duplicating patterns
- **Non-destructive** - Preserves existing `.gitignore` content
- **Safe by default** - Only adds patterns, never removes anything

## Security Considerations

🔒 **Important Security Notes:**

1. **Security Report Protection**: The `stamp_security_report.json` pattern is **critical for security**. This file contains sensitive information about detected secrets (file paths, line numbers, code snippets). Even if you skip `.gitignore` setup during `stamp init`, `stamp security scan` will automatically add this pattern when it runs. **Never commit security reports to version control.**

2. **If You Skip `.gitignore` Setup**: If you choose to skip adding patterns to `.gitignore`:
   - You must manually ensure `stamp_security_report.json` is in `.gitignore` before running `stamp security scan`
   - Or rely on `stamp security scan` to automatically add it (which it will do)
   - Other patterns (context.json, etc.) are optional but recommended to avoid committing large generated files

3. **Automatic Protection**: `stamp security scan` **always** ensures the security report file is in `.gitignore`, regardless of your `stamp init` preferences. This cannot be disabled because security reports must never be committed.

## When to Use

### Use `stamp init` when:

- Setting up LogicStamp in a new project
- You want explicit control over initialization
- You want to set up `.gitignore` before generating context files

### You don't need `stamp init` if:

- Your `.gitignore` already has the necessary patterns
- You prefer to manually manage `.gitignore` and `LLM_context.md`
- You're running `stamp context` in CI (it defaults to skipping both operations)

## Related Commands

- [`stamp context`](context.md) - Generate context files (includes smart detection)
- [`stamp context validate`](validate.md) - Validate generated context files
- [`stamp context compare`](compare.md) - Detect drift in context files
- [`stamp security scan`](security-scan.md) - Scan for secrets and generate security report
